# GNU Bash manual - GNU Project - Free Software Foundation

Source: https://www.gnu.org/software/bash/manual/

## Sections
- GNU Bash manual

## Content
Skip to main text 
 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Free Software Supporter :
 
 
 
 
 

 JOIN THE FSF 
 
 

 
 
 
 GNU Operating System 

 Supported by the
 Free Software Foundation 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 

 
 
 

 

 

 
 
 Site navigation 
 Skip 
 

 ABOUT GNU 

 PHILOSOPHY 

 LICENSES 

 EDUCATION 

 
 = 
 SOFTWARE 
 
 = 
 

 DISTROS 

 DOCS 

 MALWARE 

 HELP GNU 

 AUDIO & VIDEO 

 GNU ART 

 FUN 

 GNU'S WHO? 

 SOFTWARE DIRECTORY 

 HARDWARE 

 SITEMAP 

 
 
 
 

 

 

 GNU Bash manual

 Free Software Foundation 
 last updated July 04, 2025 

 This manual (bash) is available in the following formats:

 
 HTML
 (1020K bytes) - entirely on one web page.

 HTML - with one web page per
 node.

 HTML compressed
 (192K gzipped characters) - entirely on
 one web page.

 HTML compressed
 (228K gzipped tar file) -
 with one web page per node.

 Info document
 (168K bytes gzipped tar file) .

 ASCII text
 (604K bytes) .

 ASCII text compressed
 (160K bytes gzipped) .

 TeX dvi file
 (280K bytes gzipped) .

 PDF file
 (836K bytes) .

 Texinfo source
 (264K bytes gzipped tar file). 

 

 You can buy printed copies of
some manuals (among other items) from the Free Software Foundation;
this helps support FSF activities.

 (This page generated by the gendocs.sh
script .)

 
 

 

 

 
 
 
 BACK TO TOP ▲ 
 
 
 
 
“The Free Software Foundation (FSF) is a nonprofit with a worldwide
mission to promote computer user freedom. We defend the rights of all
software users.” 

 

 
 JOIN 
 DONATE 
 SHOP 
 
 
 

 
 

 Please send general FSF & GNU inquiries to
 <gnu@gnu.org> .
There are also other ways to contact 
the FSF. Broken links and other corrections or suggestions can be sent
to <bug-bash@gnu.org> .

 

 Copyright © 2023, 2025 Free Software Foundation, Inc.

 This page is licensed under a Creative
Commons Attribution-NoDerivs 3.0 United States License .

 
 
 Copyright Infringement Notification
